---
layout: post
title: "use this"
frontpage: true

updated_at: 2011-08-08
uuid: B8E87855-19C3-47B8-BB51-F3A36B64F9A8
---

h2. Who are you, and what do you do?

I'm a programmer at heart, but I spend a lot of time taking photos, teaching, thinking about user experience and making music with my "brutal techno punk":http://brutaltechnopunk.com band. I've been doing Rails and iPhone for a while lately and to be frank it's the best hard thinking I've done. 

h2. What hardware are you using?

My main workhorse is a Macbook Pro 15", I don't know what the processor is, it's fast enough. I run off a "ridiculously fast SSD":http://www.anandtech.com/show/4186/ocz-vertex-3-preview-the-first-client-focused-sf2200 which I replaced my DVD drive with. I'm usually hooked up to a 2nd display running as high a resolution as possible. I tend to dual boot with the most two OSes from Apple on this laptop. I've also got a "Mac Pro":http://www.apple.com/macpro/ that isn't used as much as it should be back at my house, one of my housemate uses my old "~2007ish MacBook":https://secure.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/en/wiki/MacBook

I do my iPhone stuff in the simulator, or on an iPad 2.

With Photography I moved to 3/4 lens based cameras after I went up "Everest":http://orta.github.com/on_being/24/everest/, and didn't really get results I was "happy with":http://craigmod.com/journal/gf1-fieldtest/. I bought the "Panasonic GF1":http://www.dpreview.com/reviews/PanasonicGF1/, which conveniently broke at the same time as the "GF2":http://www.engadget.com/2010/11/04/panasonic-lumix-gf2-preview/ came out. To be frank though, I preferred the first. Low light photos always seemed to come out better. Also, the "GF3":http://www.dpreview.com/previews/panasonicdmcgf3/ came out. Maybe at some point I'll get to try that but I'm really not in a rush to do so. I like how it deals with outside photos. I occasionally do wedding photography, but it's under duress. I used to have a flickr account I cared about, but then delicious got shut down, so I started but haven't finished my "own photo site":http://orta.phot.us/.

In the band I play "Keytar":http://80music.about.com/b/2009/02/24/todays-80s-instrument-spotlight-the-keytar.htm, or any other random instrument that comes near to hand. I mostly do the "singing":https://www.youtube.com/results?search_query=kieronononon.

h2. What software are you using?

Let's get this straight upfront, I love Text Editors. I feel really cramped when I have to crush myself into an IDE where I share my code interface space with a bunch of toolbars or sidebars. So my workhorse is the never updated "TextMate":http://macromates.com/ - TextMate was the first text editor I really sat down and learned to a very very deep level, and so far I've not quite got anywhere close with any other editor yet. It's always there if I need to get something done.

"Sublime Text 2":http://www.sublimetext.com/2, is a my current favourite other text editor it's more stable than "Chocolat":http://chocolatapp.com/, and it's cross platform which is always a boon when working on linux boxen. Sublime Edit has lots of features I'd like to see in Textmate like split views, and a support for Lion stuff.

I like to tinker with "Macvim":https://github.com/b4winckler/macvim with the "Janus plugin":https://github.com/carlhuda/janus set to make it feel slightly TextMateish, I like it, but I keep poring time into Macvim and I never really feel like I'm getting anywhere and after a week or two I jump back to a non-modal editor. 

"Espresso":http://macrabbit.com/espresso/ gets a shout out here also for being great for quick CSS edits when Webkit's "amazing developer tools":http://code.google.com/chrome/devtools/docs/videos.html aren't em. But it's not my kinda thing, too close to being an IDE (same with Coda.)  In iPhone dev I use XCode a lot, I've tweaked a lot of the default keybindings and I generally feel pretty nippy with moving text around in everyday life.

 I use Safari as my default browser, but that'll probably end up changing to Chrome again. When using Web Browsers I always have "LiveReload":https://github.com/mockko/livereload, "YoutubeWide":http://pedrocc.com/safari, "Facebook Photozoom":https://www.facebook.com/fbphotozoom and some kinda of support to work with "instapaper":http://instapaper.com/.

Two essential tools for everyday Web Browsing for me are "Vimari":https://github.com/guyht/vimari / "Vimium":http://vimium.github.com/ which give an amazing experience when dealing with website from your keyboard. Vimium is defintely better, but I'm really glad Vimari exists. The other tool is "Gleebox":http://thegleebox.com/, which allows me to do Quicksilver-esk commands from inside my webbrowser. 

For things that aren't text editors or web browsers. I use "Totalfinder":http://totalfinder.binaryage.com/ to give me tabs in finder, and to add cut & paste. I use these often. I do all my talking in "Adium":http://adium.im/, and I have a useful "script":https://github.com/orta/adium-log-stats/blob/master/log_stats.rb to let me see who I talk to most, and a custom chat theme that can inline translate text for me between lanaguges. I've used "Mailplane":http://mailplaneapp.com/ since it's beta days, still not planning on moving to any other mail client. I edit my images in "Pixelmator":http://www.pixelmator.com/.

For collaborating with people I use "Dropbox":https://www.dropbox.com/ (doesn't everyone? ), "Skype":http://skype.com for videochat, "CloudApp":http://www.getcloudapp.com/ for instantly uploading anything I take a screenshot of, can't recommend this app enough.

For dealing with my operating system, I like to use "Albert":http://www.alfredapp.com/ to open applications and to provide global hotkeys to Applescripts I write. It's now got an API, that's pretty exciting to me. I use "Daisy Disk":http://daisydiskapp.com/ to find large files to delete, "The Unarchiver":https://secure.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/en/wiki/The_Unarchiver to open files, this is surprisingly important as it has some useful settings like Open Folder after Unarchiving. I avoid using the mouse at all, so by default I have the mouse icon absurdly big. It turns out that in Lion I can double the size again. It's about an inch big. "(inline)No joke":/assets/images/usesthis/mouse_pointer.jpg. I use "Moom":http://manytricks.com/moom/ to move windows around using the keyboard.

I love "Fresh":http://www.ironicsoftware.com/fresh/index.html, it's an app that shows you the most recently edited files instantly, so you can either copy and paste, or drag out. It's been essential in testing, and I really miss it on other people's computers. Another biggie for me is "iTerm 2":http://www.iterm2.com/, I followed the fork's development for a while now and the author's really done some amazing work in making a terminal client that really shines. Linux users get jealous of my terminal. "(inline)That's quite an achievement.":/assets/images/usesthis/iterm2.jpg

In the terminal, I use "brew":http://mxcl.github.com/homebrew/ as a package manager. "Oh-my-zsh":https://github.com/robbyrussell/oh-my-zsh as an extension of "zsh":http://www.zsh.org/ instead of bash. I love the spell checking, the application tab completion, inline git messages, "syntax highlighting":https://github.com/zsh-users/zsh-syntax-highlighting and not having to bother typing cd to change directory. I miss those when I don't have them. I keep my "dotfiles":https://github.com/orta/dotfiles in a github repo.

When working with Ruby I use "rvm":http://rvm.beginrescueend.com/ to manage mutliple rubies, "gemsets":http://bcardarella.com/post/699582642/rvm-gemsets-bundler-awesome to ensure that my ruby gems are seperate and "bundler":http://gembundler.com/ to ensure I have my dependancies right. I like testing with "shoulda":http://thoughtbot.com/community/. I use "Base":http://menial.co.uk/software/base/ for dealing with SQLite databases and "Sequel Pro":http://www.sequelpro.com/ for MYSQL databases.

If I were setting up a new mac for ruby, I'd "follow this":http://robots.thoughtbot.com/post/8700977975/2011-rubyists-guide-to-a-mac-os-x-development.

I rarely game, but when I do it's on "steam":http://steampowered.com, I'm "ortatherox":http://steamcommunity.com/id/orta. Supposedly I've bought ~$"1200 worth of games":http://www.steamcalculator.com/id/orta.

I write all my code on "github":http://github.com/orta and I relase it all under "CreativeCommons":http://creativecommons.org/. 

h2. What would be your dream setup?

It'd be nice to not have to repurchase applications that move to the Mac App store. It'd be nice to have a "MacBook Air":http://shawnblanc.net/2011/08/macbook-air-review/. It's not essential, I'm really happy with the state of computing for nerds. I'm more interested in working towards the dream setup for people who aren't totally computer literate.
