---
layout: post
title: "using jekyll"
categories:
- creating_things
---

"ortatherox.com":http://ortatherox.com has always been a good central hub for my projects, the main site itself provided a relatively easy way to update when I'd want to publish a new project  into the world. But it wasn't perfect, infact it was very busy. I have at least 35 subfolders in the root directory so theres lots of things going on in there that people don't expect. 

rewriting your homepage is the programmer equivalent to an artist drawing their self portrait, get it right once and then suddenly every other attempt requires it being not just better, but exponentially better or just plain different. So inbetween the last public version [img] and the current one are 6 separate attempts at tackling the issue with a different slant. Eventually I got to a point where I'd taken out almost every element I didn't want to use in it and had replaced 200 odd lines of PHP with 2 sentences statically generated via jekyll. 

I knew that I wanted the site hosted at either "github":http://github.com or "heroku":http://heroku.com, which would force me into using the latest frameworks and techniques that are actually elegant. My old site used a method of templating via 80 separate files thrown together at runtime ( each project had 3 separate files) and the overall tempate was pulled in via PHP's require file. So it was neither fast nor elegantly written, but it existed, and for the time, it was enough.

 I'd experimented with rails, sinatra and nanoc inbetween for ways to write my website, but none ever felt like it was the right way to write my code. I needed something that gets around a lot of the issues I was now facing. I have a lot of legacy projects that need pulling in, templating (there's at least 3 seperate templates for projects) and there's got to be an easy way to blog. So here's my new work flow.

I use 750words to mock up each post, first of all I believe in the morning pages concept, and second it makes me want to write and I have to think about what I want to write about.  I don't write everyday, because when I wake up totally hungover I don't write much. I then have a ZSH script that al3x payne wrote [scscript] which means I can just type in blog "name" and it will make the next post and open it in textmate. The file is a static blog post in mojambo's jekyll. Jekyll is a great static site generator. It supports seperate page templates, code parsing, actively encourages source control and most importantly to me keeps everything in programs that I like. It has meant I've had to learn how _why's textile works but that's been easy and quick because it makes sense. 

So I write blog, copy in the 750words mockup and then go through and fill in all the missing urls and add images, no-one wants to read 750+ blog posts that are all words, even when the typography is large and readable. The page is given its name and categories (categories are used to transform the URLs) and then I run my custom git command to both log what I've committed to my log server and to add and commit to git, a simple git push to github and then the blog is updated. I've got my copy, and github has their copy, I'm happy. It's better this way because even during the moving process I managed to completely nuke one of my existing articles about movies, and the only backup was from google cache. Not the right place to be in.
