---
layout: post
title: meat
categories:
- "on"
updated_at: 2012-04-15
uuid: 3EFDC934-FD2C-4083-9F7C-D731345338BC
---

I've had a fascination behind the science of food, which explains my bookcase of food books that don't really have recipes in them ("Cooking for Geeks":http://www.cookingforgeeks.com/, "The Flavour Thesaurus":http://www.flavourthesaurus.com/ and "Why We Get Fat":http://www.sfgate.com/cgi-bin/article.cgi?f=/c/a/2011/04/03/DDFL1IF074.DTL) and two fascinating "Micheal Pollan":https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Michael_Pollan books ( The Omnivores Dilema and In Defense of Food. )

This was all kicked off by someone advising that I read the Omnivores Dilema, and then giving me the paperback that I read through in two long sittings. The book is great, I advise it for everyone to read. In simple it goes through the processing involved in making 4 different dishes; a macdonalds meal, an organic meal, a home grown meal and finally a self hunted / foraged meal. It's full of great facts and Pollan has an interesting opinion on ways to eat ethically. 

It was when someone else had a copy of In Defense of Food I really got the feel for his methods. In simple "the book says this":http://www.nytimes.com/2007/01/28/magazine/28nutritionism.t.html?_r=1

<div class="highlight" style="color:white;font-size: 0.8em;">Eat food. Not too much. Mostly plants.</div>

So, just over a year ago whilst on tour with my awesome band "Kierononon":http://brutaltechnopunk.com we generally do all our own cooking. And as the other members of the band are vegetarians, I figured I may as well try keep the vegetarian thing running. My problem with that is that I love trying new things, and I don't want to be obnoxious. So, I came up with some simple rules.

1. Don't be one of ""those vegetarians":http://www.thebestpageintheuniverse.net/c.cgi?u=sponsor"
2. Meat only for cultural value

Number 1 means that I don't have to put people out of their way when they're cooking for me, lets not have people cook two permuations of their meals, one is already a lot of effort.

Number 2 mean I've got to try Lasagna Pizza in NYC, Meat Loaf in Princeton, Cheesesteak in Philadelphia, Nuremburgers in Nuremburg, Currywurst in Berlin and Tripe in Porto. I'm pretty happy with that.