---
layout: default_2013
title: "turned 26 once"
categories:
- "on"
- being

frontpage: true
---


<div class="slide headline container initial">
	<div class="grid_12 header-unit clearfix ">
    <h1>on<span style="font-size:84px">/</span>being<span style="font-size:84px">/</span>26</h1>	
	</div>
</div>

<div class=" container ">

<div class="grid_6">
I became 26 in the UK, a few days before I had been in New York City, a few days after I was back there. My 26th year can be summed up up quite easily as being travel and code.
</div>

<div class="grid_9 omega">
I wanted to get out to NYC sooner rather than later, my job at Art.sy still wasn’t totally started as at Art.sy everyone gets a 3 month stint before being offered full empolyment in any form. This process keeps it democratic and everyone gets a say in whether someone stays. I wanted to meet all these screen names. I’d also made a promise to Kierononon^on that I’d do a gig in November. I’d been trying to put off making any plans longer than a month or two away because I couldn’t be too sure of when I was heading out.

In the end I went out to NYC for a week then came back for an extended weekend, it was a lot of flying, and the only real advantage was that I finished my “On being 25” on a bunch of flights and  Kieronononon gig was good. Getting back into the states was difficult after that. I was the last person on after being held back for some additional questioning about my travel plans.
</div>

<div class="grid_12 omega">

With myself firmly planted on terra firma for a few days it was time to go to Miami. 

It’s become an annual thing, even as Art.sy has grown we’ve still gone down to Miami as a group and hosted an event opener. So what’s in Miami in December? Miami Art Basel. Art Basel is a contemporary art exhibition ( read: lots of modern galleries showing art ) held in the smallish town of Basel in Switzerland it’s basically the biggest art fair in the world. And according to people I’ve talked to at both events a lot of the large private deals ( read: not auctions ) go down at Art Basel. For ten years they’ve also ran a sister exhibition in Miami. Miami Basel gets more visitors. But that’s probably about the parties. 

So Art.sy rented a beautiful place from AirBnB and we stayed down there for a week. Art.sy hosted the pre-Exhibition party on the beach in the evening. The food was AMAZING. [It was also full of celebrities](http://worldredeye.com/2011/12/art-sy-party-at-soho-beach-house/), but I didn’t recognise them. Though I would have recognised Paris Hilton has I seen her.

It was interesting. I got to meet a lot of people who previously were just committers on github repos. We didn’t use any kinda on internal chat, and my only experience of the vast majority of my colleagues was through sprint demos: http://artsy.tumblr.com/post/27194860302/sprint-demo-july-2012

It turned out no one sucked. So that was great. I for most of my time in NYC crashing with a great friend of mine, essentially my programming mentor. Benjamin Jackson. This is the first guy to offer me my first job and to get me my latest. 

Mention Programming gaols form last year somewhere

When I was back and settled in NYC I only had a few weeks before moving onwards. So I tried to do stuff and mix working on Mixtapes. I was another wide eyed Brit around NYC, so I wasfeel genuinely lucky to have had Julia Colavita guide me around the city. Going with her to the Brookyln Brewery tour and coming back hammered in the middle of the day was a highlight of hanging out with her. 

http://juliacolavita.com

I also spotted a spoken word event by Corey Taylor which was fascinating. Corey Taylor is the lead singer from a band called Slipknot. Splitknot are a masked heavy metal band who formed when I was a teenager. They’re pretty heavy. But they were dealing with the accidental overdose of their bassist and were on a break. It was surreal watching a man who I’ve listened off and on to talking. He sounded heartbroken. 

Christmas was a low-key event, I spent the time wrapping up an app I had made for Danger in Australia so I could share playlists for her. It’s called Mixtapes and it uses spotify to let me create mixtapes for other people to use. I have her logged in on my account and she can see playlists that I can edit on my computer. It looks pretty, and it works nicely. So it was on boxing day that I got the final version out for her. My Christmas day was spent programming in the office eating chocolate preztels and yoghurt. People always feel sympathy when I tell them this, but I don’t think they understand the sheer joy of flow.

I spent the new year in NYC, all my english peers were somehow surprised to find I wasn’t interested in doing the “New York Ball Drop” event. From what I’d gathered it sucks, someone told me that today as well. I opted to run a half marathon around central park. In a onesie. It was a great way to bring in the new year, and it was good to start to taking running more seriously. 

I didn’t spend much time in the new year at NYC, because I had the other wedding of my siblings to attend. This time instead of the ridiculous heat it was the freezing mountains of Banff Canada. My demi-celebrity sister won a UK based reality TV show called Tool Academy, and is now married to the man who she won it with, he’s pretty awesome BTW. So we did a small family trip to go and live with my other sister in Canada  whilst everything got setup. 

It wasn’t just my family who went along, we invited the amazingly talented James Melia to come along as wedding photographer after he did an amazing job on my older sisters wedding in crete the year later. I’ve included a few below.

I arrived back from Canada with the family with some fresh aspirations; I was working full time with art.sy making the amazing Art.sy Folio remotely, and Danger was out in Austrailia so I opted to try sharpen my portuguese again. Last year I went to Brazil, this year I opted for Portugual. I picked the only city I had really heard of and moved to Porto for a month. To be honest I spent the entire time working and running around the city (lots of cool hills and old buildings) as I was pushing to get version 1 of Folio out. This wasn’t anything to do with Art.sy, but I needed to finish with a sprint.

I did take some time to reflect on my wardrobe out in Porto. I was beginning to feel that I was done with jeans, everyone wears jeans, they’re all just different shades of blue and black. So I threw all my jeans away and started afresh buying as many different colours and materials as possible. Still am.

I arrived back from Porto and Dave Grandinetti offered to let me crash at his as he was going to America for a few months and he would have an empty place, plus he’s a nice guy. So I set up camp in his spare room hooking myself up with a hammock. I wanted to experiment with paint and figured this was as good a time as any, so I started painting, daily, once Folio was released. 

It was doing painting whilst watching TV Shows that I started thinking that there just isnt a good experience for doing it using the website Put.IO. Since the website itself is pretty bad though it does some awesome things, and there’s a bunch of cheap low quality iPhone / iPad apps. I figured it was a good idea to build something with a great experience. To be honest if I had known how many months it would take to make I’m not sure I would have done it. Because here I am nine months after I started the project still making more features for the app. 

The app was an interesting approach to a hosted file sharing, it is the app I use to experiment with new ideas before using them in Folio. My reviews have been positive, it’s currently at 4.5 stars. It is my first app that people have to pay to use, that was a hard decision but I feel that it’s worked out. 

Once I had started to get a grasp on how long Put.IO was going to make I spent a weekend making Mixtapes usable for people other than me and Danger and got that nagging side project shipped. 

By April, Dave had started work on a website that needed to use fitness devices like fitbits to work, and so he got one. I thought it rocked. So the rest of the guys in the office ( Henk & Ian ) grabbed one and started the most analytical few months of my life. We competed on things like most stairs climbed, genuinely going out of our way to walk up them. Or walking miles into work daily to beat everyone on steps.

I was beginning to feel a bit frustrated that I couldn’t get a copy of my both of my sisters weddings on an iPad with a good experience ( yes, this is a pattern. ) I had bought both of them iPads the year before, and by this point both of my parents were using them as their main home devices.  so I took a week out of Put.IO work and moved it into writing an iPad app for Melia’s private photo archives. It turned out pretty nice, in part because I tried to get as little interface as possible and just let the pictures speak for themselves. I’d spent 9 months thinking of this kinda thing for Art.sy so a lot of the hard decisions had already been talked out. I debated taking the app further and adding the ability to buy prints through the app. That turned into a mess of not fun issues that eventually just made me drop the entire idea. I did get some interesting ideas out of the app though, and everyone I know who has a copy is is really happy with it. 

Dave moved out in May, so I got to rock his super comfy bed in Huddersfield. I was asked if I could free up some time to do a few features to a charity’s iPhone app, so I gave a few weekends to making Ushahidi’s public iOS project support video uploads. 

I did take the chance to do another 2.8 Hours Later, this time in Liverpool.
[photo]

There’s also a video.

Basel the Art fair in Switzerland happened in June, it turned out to be a great quiet affair where I could hang out with some of the Art.sy team. As I work remotely it was rare to talk to anyone outside of the dev team on IRC. Basel had art, I got art fatigue. It turns out that exists.

As if that wasn’t enough, I made weekend plans to try see some works by my favourite painter. We missed the last train to see the works which kinda sucks. I think grax enjoyed it though.

http://johnyml.blogspot.com/2008/10/vulnerable-viewer-and-art-fatigue.html

My older sister had a kid in June, with a cool mathematical name of Delta. I’ve yet to meet her though. Except on skype. The other had a kid in Febuary 2013.

These few months were kinda slow for events, I spent a lot of my free time exercising and working on Put.IO. I did some lazer quest, I had a hilarious poker night go wrong when I won the pot and paid for everyone’s drinks. My cousins wedding happened, it was a fun affair. I started getting regular massages. I joined a gym. I did 6-a-side football every week. I ran a few miles everyday, after I’d lost my second fitbit. I should learn to just use runkeeper.

I played a lot of Monopoly the card game. Thanks Fenn. I gave another Pecha Kucha, but this one was about Monopoly the game and its various histories. It turns out there’s a lot of contention in the history. Did you know that board game rules can’t be patented, only the pieces. Anti-Monopoly looks kinda cool.

Dave arrived back in August and soon enough I was helping him set down shop, he was going to move back to America ( spoiler: I just spent Xmas + New Years with him. ) Which was fine as I had been setting up plans to go out of the country myself. About 2 weeks before I left my makey makey arrived, and a few days earlier I had agreed to talk to kids at a school on things yyu maths. So I did what any programmer would do, I wrote a program that works with my makey makey to show how you simple maths can do cool animations. By mixing that with awesome banana piano action I think they might’ve got a bit more of an inkling to create.

So Danger wasn’t back, for that we had to wait till November. I had debated going out to see her a few times during the year during slow spots but it always felt to me like I’d be intruding on her over there. So I didn’t. However she had planned on going to Asia for the last 6 weeks of being abroad, and she asked if I wanted to come along.  As this was the opposite, I couldn’t think of a reason to say no. 

We met up in Bangkok and spent a few days getting used to the heat / timezone and then moved up to the north of Thaliand.



We got back in mid November, we spent two weeks together in the UK spending only a day or two apart. And by december I was back out to New York.
