---
layout: on\_being, title: "31", categories:["on", "being"]
---

[goodbye 2017 pic]

This one is late. I started writing my first words mid-December. I think it’s best to quote my friend Maddie: “How do
you write anything positive with such a shit-show of a year?” - last year we had Brexit and Trump. This year both are
showing to worsen. It’s hard not to be constantly anxious when the place you grew up in is splitting apart and the place
you moved to has split.

This toxic environment dampens achievements and really brings a much more sombre tone to this year’s write-up. There are
tonnes of things I’m happy about and lots of wins, but it’s hard to reconcile things I’m proud of with the worsening
state of the UK and the US. I try use twitter to follow people “on both sides”, but it feels like doing so provides a
false equivalence in their stances. A neo-nazi’s opinion should not have the same weight as someone from Antifa. There
are a lot of perspectives without empathy out there, and it makes me deeply sad.

I don’t want to contribute to that atmosphere, so I’ll start of by talking about Danger and my most empathetic story of
the year. We failed as dog fosterers.

My new VISA allows for Danger to start working, eventually (she still can’t), in the USA. Until then she’s been getting
through a lot of Netflix: Friends, Cheers, Parks & Recs, American Horror Story, Dear White People, Blackish, Bojack
Horseman… the list goes on. She wanted to do something a bit more meaningful with her time, so she signed up with
[Animal Haven][1] to volunteer once a week. By the second week, she was doing 3-4 days a week helping out with dogs. The
centre got chaotic around this time due to the hurricanes in Houston, Florida and Puerto Rico, which were wrecking havoc
with civil infrastructure. Animal Haven were regularly receiving dogs from those areas, and Danger was on the fostering
mailing lists. We talked to Dave, our housemate, about fostering and Danger went down at midnight to help prepare.

The next day we were assigned a dog, and Murphy (then named Vesper by the shelter) arrived in our cosy NYC apartment. We
don’t know much about Murphy’s background, and we [did a DNA test][2] which only muddied the waters even more. Does this
guy look like a third-chihuahua, quarter-rottweiler and a mix of some other stuff?

[Dog pic]

I dunno. Anyway, after a week of fostering, we took him back to Animal Haven and Danger decided we weren’t going to be
letting him stay there. I supported this call. Within a few days we had a new member of the family. He keeps Danger on
her toes, and now she has someone to watch Netflix with. She’s been doing an amazing job at training him, it’s a really
time-intensive job raising a puppy and luckily for us - she has that time. We’ve got a good network of friends who love
helping out, and our housemate Dave is also a dog person. :+1:

We’ve had Murphy for 3 months now, it’s been great.

[Dog pic series]

I originally opened this post on our our marriage and weddings, as it’s really shaped a lot of the year. I proposed last
year in Central Park, and we handled most of the marriage paper work in 2016. We knew that arranging a wedding-like
event was a lot of time and effort, so we gave ourselves 6 months to run an event and to prepare to move out of
Huddersfield to NYC.

We didn’t want a big expensive wedding. Neither of us are particularly fussy, and we were paying for everything. So we
had full-control, low expectations and could basically do whatever felt right. We wanted to do it local, Danger had been
living in Huddersfield for over a decade, and I had appointed it as my unofficial-hometown (it’s not strictly true,
Halifax was closer to the village where I grew up) - as we were going to move to NYC, we were also considering it a
farewell party also.

With both of us being non-religious, (we both subscribe to [Optimisitic Nihilism][3] which I think is classed as
Apatheism ) we could skip on churches and more formal wedding events. We ended up booking the place where I used to
co-work as a venue: Bates Mill. Bates Mill is this innovative industrial factory space, where they host textile mills,
tech co-working spaces, artist studios and thousand people all-night raves. It’s run by these two lovely brothers who
are so fun to talk shop with. I got in touch saying that we wanted to do our wedding there, but that we were planning on
handling it all ourselves. This made the event walking distance.

Danger handled most of the event setup. She had to leave her NHS job as a podiatrist to come to NYC, so she opted to
leave a little bit earlier than needed to handle all the last minute preparations. She arranged a bunch of the magic. We
invited people from all over the world.

[Photos]

A nice tie on the bow [check with dm on this phrase] is that we managed to get the same photographer for our wedding as
my sisters both had. He’s been to all sort of **biomes** (?) with our family: my older sister had a wedding in
sun-drenched Crete, my younger sister had her wedding in the snow-topped peaks of Canada and me and Danger got married
in the rolling green hills of Yorkshire.

[Full photo set?]

Our wedding party went off without a hitch. It’s cool because this is our second wedding party. We became legally
married back in October 2016, and had tiny civil ceremony in Huddersfield’s town hall and then ordered Indian food back
at my sister’s house.

In keeping with having two wedding parties, we had two honeymoons. The first one was a weekend away in Wales because we
wanted to do the world’s biggest underground trampoline. We actually missed our booking at Bounce Below and went back
the next day. We lucked out - we missed a school holiday, and the day after wasn’t, so we had the entire place to
ourselves for 2 hours.

[Bounce below photos?]

In contrast, our other honeymoon was an epic three weeks in Japan. We started out in Tokyo, then moved to Kyoto, Osaka
and Hiroshima and then back to Tokyo. Japan is one of the few places both of us had never visited. We both had an
amazing time, for us both our favourite memories was doing MariCar: go-karting on Tokyo's main streets. Check the
photos:

* check Airbnb for cities
* conference
* terrible sex shops - tokyo
* ridiculous photo booths
* fluffy pancakes x 4
* okonomiyaki on camera
* Asahi beer tour - osaka
* cup noodle museum - osaka
* wagyu beef experience - osaka
* Fushimi inari shrine - Kyoto
* capsule hotel
* tempura (with friends and strangers 360 camera)- kyoto

[Photo series]

I now love ramen.

Back when I was 24 I optimistically moved to Huddersfield from my parents’ with no job, a tiny amount of savings and
only knowing a few people there. I matured in that town, I owe it a lot. I’m sorry to leave it, but I don’t think I
could move back. I’ve turned into a city person, after \~28 years of being a country boy.

The underlying pull for the big city is that there are just so many more people doing the same kinds of things as me.
This helps give me a sense of place. Huddersfield was great, but there wasn’t much of a developer scene. I was close
enough to Leeds and Manchester to occasionally participate in theirs, but the difference in scale to NYC is dramatic.

# Artsy

I’m in my 7th year at Artsy. It’s cool to look back at the brief mention of Artsy in [on being 25][4] and see this
section expand over time. When I first joined the general stressors were “will this work?” - the usual for an early
stage startup, and it did. As the product and company matured it lowered a lot of the risk. Yet this year has been my
most stressful, and looking at it from the other side of the project it’s hard to easily pinpoint anything exact for
that.

I’ve never really had problems around deadlines and external expectations at Artsy. Yet, I ended up being roughly 4
months late on what seemed like such a simple 1-2 month project from the beginning. I’m still struggling to quite get
why that happened. After the 1st month of being late I dropped almost everything which I enjoyed doing but wasn’t
directly related to this project’s bottom line. No more: blogging, public speaking, improvements to our tooling and I
even started breaking my personal rule of not doing Artsy product work in my personal time.

The people I work with are understanding, but that doesn’t really help dealing with personal guilt.

It feels like the last few months at Artsy have just been a bunch of sucker punches: I’ve been feeling really down about
being late, our head of design Robert announced he was leaving and then Artsy’s first engineer, Craig, announced he was
also leaving. Both of whom are people I’ve worked with for the full 7 years. I did a lot more work with Robert when we
were small, and I’ve been doing a lot of work with Craig since we moved to JavaScript.

7 years is a long time to work at the same place, so I can totally see where they’re coming from. Robert started his own
design agency and Craig just wants to chill out for a few months. But damn though, I’m gonna miss them.

Even with the recent lows, Artsy continues to be a really cool place to work. I still think the work is a net positive
to the world and worthwhile.

When I think to myself, _“what would I want to do if I left Artsy?”_ - it’s basically exactly what I’m doing now. I’d
want to work on the type of projects I work on at Artsy: sometimes bleeding edge, sometimes perfectly boring. I get to
work with people who are willing to dive deep into all sorts of potential technologies and that’s inspiring. Artsy isn’t
in the "disruption" business (check out [this repo][5] for more info) both at business level and within the dev team,
we’re still an outstanding example of community-wide contributors within the iOS and front-end world for our size.

There's an upcoming re-org that I'm apprehensive about, but it's likely we'll be expanding the dev team in 2019 and I'm
excited for that.

## Code

Somehow this year I ended up being [one of the top 20][6] most active OSS contributors to GitHub. Part of this is a
life-hack called [Open Source by Default][7]. I’ve been focusing on 3 things in particular this year:

**Hardening of CocoaPods**: The last 3 years have been pretty crap in the world of iOS, especially if you care about
mundane topics like dependency management. It's not a sexy problem, but it's the biggest on-boarding barrier for joining
and participating in a community.

What spoiled working on CocoaPods for me was that the GitHub Mac team shipped Carthage which stuck around and fragmented
the ecosystem. Then a couple of months later Apple announced their own dependency manger which deprecated both Carthage
and CocoaPods. This is old news now as that all happened two years ago, but the Swift Package Manager doesn't actually
deprecate CocoaPods, because it doesn't handle the same problem. It created an entirely new domain for dependency
management (Swift server/CLI apps) and left iOS/macOS apps to CocoaPods. This sucks.

For the last 2 years, Apple has made it not worth putting time into the biggest iOS community project, relied on [by
millions of apps][millions][8]. They took the energy out of the community, and have one full-time employee working on a
replacement. This environment meant most active developer on the CocoaPods team left to pursue projects more worth their
time.

However, you can't just drop a big project like that, servers need to keep running, PRs need to be merged and the needs
of your dependants aren't static. Luckily, there's fresh blood in the project, Dimitris Koutsogiorgas is basically
handling pushing the project forwards on his own now. There are other people like me who ensure things don't fall over,
but that's it. I don't have the time, energy or inclination to help grow the contributor base any more. So it'll just
stay as is. Which is sad.

On the bright side, CocoaPods still exists, and 2 million new projects started using CocoaPods this year. It's not
exactly gathering dust. Still, I feel a loss that CocoaPods could be so much more of a force for lowering the barriers
of entry to OSS and improving the community.

**JS Infrastructure** - Artsy moved more of [our native focus to JavaScript][9], we needed to ensure that a lot of the
fuzzier edges of JavaScript were hardened. This ranges from feeling confident in the lifetime of our key dependencies,
to knowing that that Artsy can influence this. The JavaScript culture is pretty different from the native.

A lot of this move has been technical, I've made contributions to many of the key tools that we are using to build our
apps with. For example:

* I am in the GitHub orgs for: [Storybooks][10], [Styled Components][11] and [Jest Community][gh\_jest]
* I am a member of the Jest core team
* I've made PRs to React, React Native, Yarn, VS Code and TypeScript

I feel a lot more comfortable in the JavaScript community this year. It's only been a year and a half, but I think I
understand where I fit and how the majority of the many node ecosystems work.

**Danger** - I once thought that I would be done with Danger, but Artsy's move to consolidate on JavaScript meant that I
needed to really grok the ecosystem fast. I had been thinking about how to build Danger on a server for a year or two,
but in order to do it I'd have to make a lot of drastic changes. So I used those as momentum to start Danger JS.

I covered the whys and hows pretty comprehensively in this Artsy Engineering [blog post: Danger][12] and in [On Being
30][13]. No need to cover it all in too much depth here.

Danger is something that has gone from being a quick, small project to scratch an itch, to a complex **multi-headed
hydra: (many headed hydra?)**

* Danger Ruby
* Danger JavaScript
* Peril
* Danger Process
* Danger Swift
* Process separated Danger JavaScript
* Process separated Peril

Each one of these projects are serious in their own right, and maintaining them all is a non-trivial task. In the last
year I've shipped around 250 PRs to the danger org. That's a lot of spare time code.

Towards the end of this year, I**'ve been doubting the value for some of my time investment in OSS. reads oddly**

Peril is a great idea, but an engineer at GitHub is building a similar project, [probot][14]. It's great, we use it.
Peril occupies another space, but the venn diagram for what they do has a strong overlap. I could easily spend the next
year or two building and exploring Peril, _but should I?_ Sometimes the answer feels like yes, sometimes the answer
feels like no.

# Structure of Stories

I've spent so many years studying programming and code architecture. I can jump into most codebases and have a sense of
where people have taken shortcuts for time trade-offs, been new to an environment, or written really well thought-out
code. These are mostly gut feelings from reading and writing so much, you grow a sense of appreciation for the art.

I've taken a considerable amount of time this year studying narrative structures. I started off buying a few books, but
they ended up being very [male by default][15] - which turned me off finishing most. Instead I moved to YouTube, and
that was such a great decision. There are so many great youtube channels devoted to critical analysis of great
movies/shows.

[name a few]

* Every Frame a Painting
* GoodBadFlicks etc

I can sit and watch hours of people picking apart media. This year, I have listened to around a hundred hours of a
podcast doing critical analysis on _just one book_ ([it's a great book][16]). I also watched all of The Wire, which was
exceptional. I think we're definitely in a golden age of tv right no**w, (The Wire started 16 years ago? - is that still
in the golden age statement?) **with some of the most compelling narratives being written.

# :wave:

I don't really know how to end this. I've re-drafted these paragraph so many times for this year, here are some of the
highlights:

* I've flip-flopped so many times on what I think I want to do in 2018
* Sometimes I just want to stop working in tech
* Almost off all of the books I've read have been been super depressing
* I'm really conflicted about my role in this industry

None of these got past the full review cycle - but they are all feelings I've felt, which makes it real. \*\*This is a
year where the good outweighs the bad, but is one of the first times where it was a better year.. I used to always say
"this was my best year" and this year it's not really been the case.

I explored feelings like this before in 2015 when I felt a resurgence of anger at the NSA/GHCQ with ["Spheres of
influence"][spheres][17] and really started to re-think what I wanted to spend my spare time on. I feel like the start
of 2018 is another one of those times, but it's not really anger that incites it, it's apathy.

I have less of a connection to the programming communities I used to care about and a lot of my long-term working
buddies have left Artsy and the culture feels different. These used to be core pillars of my identity and this year they
both crumbled a bit.

So I gave myself two new years resolutions:

* Do more to make Danger happy.

  She moved to NYC for me, and I want to do more to make her feel comfortable here.

* Do more with C4Q

  I can have my doubts about the industry, but leaving it doesn't really feel like an option to me. So I want to do
  things that make me happy, and make me feel better about being an engineer.

  Helping out with C4Q is one of the few things I've never felt has been a bad use of my time. I was so honoured this
  year to be their volunteer of the year, and I want to go back and do more.

[c4q pic]

Was in the UK preps for wedding We had just done our trips to the big bounce, and hung out in wales Then went to italy
and chilled

may 13 wedding post wedding honemyoon portugal

github stats get more active 300 repos a year, \~5,500 commits/actions top 50 -\> top 15

C4Q award

TV

DM

* Friends (I'd watch it again right now, I'd watch it every day)
* American Gods
* GOT
* Rick & Morty (not quite on an interlectual)
* Mindhunter
* Handmaid's tale
* Preacher (and I really liked the comics)
* Black Butler ("Bassie, Bastian, genuinely into it)

OT:

* The Wire
* Steve Universe
* One Punch Man
* Bob Burger

Books:

* The Three Body PRoblem
* Worm 2
* The Gender Knot: Unraveling Our Patriarchy
* Version Control: A Novel

http://www.sicpers.info/2017/11/stop-ignoring-the-world/

[1]: https://www.animalhavenshelter.org
[2]: http://reports.wisdompanel.com/dnareport/cUh8w6SR8VXDZc6WT_3Hz6EWF7pr8xQxS8RH3HKQAmC5jpEeryLNsPLaElCpN8yz#/
[3]: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=MBRqu0YOH14
[4]: http://orta.io/on/being/25
[5]: https://github.com/artsy/meta
[6]: https://gist.github.com/paulmillr/2657075/
[7]: https://artsy.github.io/series/open-source-by-default/
[8]: http://metrics.cocoapods.org/api/v1/status
[9]: http://artsy.github.io/series/react-native-at-artsy/
[10]: https://github.com/storybooks
[11]: https://github.com/styled-components
[12]: http://artsy.github.io/blog/2017/06/30/danger-one-oh-again/#OK..so..2.versions.of.Danger..
[13]: http://orta.io/on/being/30
[14]: https://probot.github.io
[15]: http://tvtropes.org/pmwiki/pmwiki.php/Main/MenAreGenericWomenAreSpecial
[16]: https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/18713259-worm
[17]: http://orta.io/rebase/spheres-of-influence
