---
layout: on_being
title: "31"
categories:
- "on"
- "being"
---

This one is late. I started writing my first words mid-December. I think it’s best to quote my friend Maddie: “How do
you write anything positive with such a shit-show of a year?” - last year we had Brexit and Trump. This year both are
showing to worsen. It’s hard to not be constantly anxious when the place you grew up is splitting apart, and the place
you moved to has split.

This toxic environment dampens achievements and really brings a much more sombre tone to this year’s write-up. There’s
tonnes of things I’m happy about, and lots of wins but it’s hard to reconcile things I’m proud of with the worsening
state of the UK and the US. I try use twitter to follow people “on both sides”, but that feels like doing so provides a
false equivalence in their stances. A neo-nazi’s opinion should not have the same weight as someone from antifa. There’s
a lot of perspectives without empathy out there, and it makes me deeply sad.

I don’t want to contribute to that atmosphere, so I’ll start of by talking about Danger +my most empathetic story of the
year. We failed as dog fosterers. This year has been dominated with my marriage to Danger, and our move to permanently
live in NYC.

My new VISA allows for Danger to start working, eventually, (she still can’t) in the USA. Until then she’s been getting
through a lot of Netflix: Friends, Cheers, Parks & Recs, American Horror, Dear White People, Blackish, Bojack Horseman.
She wanted to do something a bit more meaningful with her time, so she signed up with [Animal Haven][animal-haven] to
volunteer once a week. By the second week, she was doing 3-4 days a week helping out with dogs. The centre got chaotic
around this time due to the hurricanes happening in Floria and Puerto Rico, which were wrecking havoc with civil
infrastructure. Animal Haven were regularly receiving dogs from those areas, and Danger was on the fostering mailing
lists. We talked to Dave, our housemate, about fostering, and Danger went down at midnight to help prepare.

The next day we were assigned a dog, and Murphy arrived in our cosy NYC apartment. We don’t know much about Murphy’s
background, and we [did a DNA test][dnatest] which only muddied the waters even more. Does this guy look like a
third-chuiwawah, third-rottwieler and a mix of some other stuff?

[Dog pic] (have a portrait shot for phone and a landscape for desktop)

I dunno. Anyway, after a week of fostering, we took him back to Animal Haven and Danger decided we weren’t going to be
letting him stay there. I supported this call. Within a few days we had a new member of the family. He keeps Danger on
her toes, and now she has someone to watch Netflix with. She’s been doing an amazing job at training him, it’s a really
time-intensive job raising a puppy and luckily for us - she has that time. We’ve got a good network of friends who love
helping out, and our housemate Dave is also a dog person. :+1:

We’ve had Murphy for 3 months now, it’s been great.

[Dog pic series]

I originally opened this post on our our marriage and weddings, as it’s really shaped a lot of the year. I proposed last
year in Central Park, and we handled most of the marriage paper work in 2016. We knew that arranging a wedding-like
event was a lot of time + effort, so we gave ourselves 6 months to run an event and to prepare to move out of
Huddersfield to NYC.

We didn’t want a big expensive wedding. Neither of us are particularly fussy, and I was paying for everything. So we had
full-control, low expectations and could basically do whatever felt right. We wanted to do it local, Danger had been
living in Huddersfield for over a decade, and I had appointed it as my unofficial-hometown (it’s not strictly true,
Halifax was closer to the village where I grew up) - if we were going to move to NYC, we should also be considering it a
farewell part also.

With both of us being non-religious, (we both subscribe to [Optimisitic Nihilism][optimisitic-nihilism] which I think is
classed as apathgnositism [TODO: double check] ) we could skip on churches and more formal wedding events. We ended up
booking the place where I used to co-work as a venue: Bate’s Mill. Bate’s Mill is this forward looking industrial
factory space, where they host textile mills, tech co-working spaces, artist studios and thousand people all-night
raves. It’s ran by these lovely two brothers, who’re so fun to talk tech with. I got in touch saying that we wanted to
do our wedding there, but that we planning on handling it all ourselves. This made the event walking distance.

Danger handled most of the event setup. She had to leave her NHS job as a podiatrist to come to NYC, so she opted to
leave a little bit earlier than needed to handle all the last minute preparations. She arranged a bunch of the magic. We
invited people from all over the world.

[Photos]

A nice tie on the bow [check with dm on this phrase] is that we managed to get the same photographer for our wedding as
my sisters both had. He’s been to all sort of biomes with our family: my older sister had a wedding in the sun-drenched
Crete, my younger sister had her wedding in the snow-topped peaks of Canada and me and Danger got married in the rolling
green hills of Yorkshire.

[Full photo set?]

Our wedding party went off without a hitch. It’s cool because this is our second wedding party. We became legally
married back in October 2016, and had tiny civil ceremony in Huddersfield’s town hall and then ordered Indian food back
at my sister’s house.

In keeping with having two wedding parties, we had two honeymoons. The first one was a weekend away in Wales because we
wanted to do the world’s biggest underground trampoline. We actually missed our booking at Bounce Below and went back
the next day. We lucked out - we missed a school holiday, and the day after wasn’t, so we had the entire place to
ourselves for 2 hours.

[Bound below photos?]

In contrast, our other honeymoon was an epic three weeks in Japan.

[Photo series]

I now love ramen.

Japan was a pretty easy decision for a honeymoon, as I had been invited to speak at

Giving us a few more weeks to prepare to make our full-time move to NYC.

I optimistically moved to Huddersfield from my parents’ with with no job, a tiny amount of savings and knowing a few
people back when I was 24. I matured in that town, I owe it a lot. I’m sorry to leave, but I don’t think I could move
back. I’ve turned into a city person, after ~28 years of being country folk.

The underlaying pull for the big city is that there are just so many more people doing the same kind of things as me.
This makes collaboration easier and serendipitous ideas can really flow. Huddersfield was great, but there wasn’t much
of a developer scene. I was close enough to Leeds and Manchester to occasionally participate in theirs, but the
difference in scale to NYC is dramatic.

Since it’s become much harder to determine

—

I’m at my 7th year at Artsy. It’s cool to look back at the brief mention of Artsy in [on being 25][on_being_25_artsy]
and see this section expand out over time. When I first joined the general stressors were “will this work?” - the normal
for an early stage startup, and it did. As the product and company matured it lowered a lot of the risk. Yet this year
has been my most stressful, and looking at from the other side of the project it’s hard to easily pinpoint anything
exact for that.

I’ve never really had problems around deadlines and external expectations at Artsy. Yet, I ended up being roughly 4
months late on what seemed like such a simple 1-2 month project from the beginning. I’m still struggling to quite get
why that happened. After the 1st month of being late I dropped almost everything which I enjoyed doing but wasn’t
directly related to this project’s bottom line. No more: blogging, public speaking, improvements to our tooling and I
even started breaking my personal rule of not doing Artsy work in my personal time.

The people I work with are understanding, but that doesn’t really help dealing with personal guilt.

It feels like the last few months at Artsy have just been a bunch of sucker punches: I’ve been feeling real down about
being late, our head of design Robert announced he was leaving and then Artsy’s first engineer Craig announced he was
also leaving. Both of these are people who I’ve been working with for the full 7 years, I did a lot more work with
Robert when we were small, and I’ve been doing a lot of work with Craig since we moved to JavaScript.

7 years is a long time to be working at the same place, so I can totally see where they’re coming from. Robert started
his own design agency and Craig just wants to chill out for a few months. But, damn though, I’m gonna miss them.

Artsy continues to be a really cool place to work though. I still think the work is about improving the world, even if
we are now starting to focus on the bottom line a bit more than before.

When I think to myself, _“what would I want to do if I left Artsy?”_ - it’s basically exactly what I’m doing now. I’d
want to work on the type of projects I work on at Artsy: sometimes bleeding edge, sometimes perfectly boring. I get to
work with people who are willing to dive deep into all sorts of potential technologies and that’s inspiring. Artsy isn’t
in the disruption business (check out [this repo][artsy_meta] for more info) both at business level and within the dev
team, we’re still an outstanding example of community-wide contributors within the iOS and front-end world for our size.

The only thing I’d want that I’m not sure I get so much at Artsy is the feeling of surprised by someone’s work coming
out of the blue which will positively affect me.

—

Somehow this year I ended up being one of the top 20 most active OSS contributors to GitHub this year. Part of this is a
life-hack called [Open Source by Default][oss_default]. I’ve been focusing on three things in particular.

Hardening of CocoaPods. The last 3 years has been a pretty crap in the world of iOS, especially if you care about
mundane topics like dependency management. The GitHub Mac team shipped, Carthage which fragmented the eco-system. Then a
couple of months later Apple announced their own dependency manger just

So we got married last year, which is how I opened

This year was dominated by our actual wedding & Danger's move to NYC.

Was in the UK preps for wedding We had just done our trips to the big bounce, and hung out in wales Then went to italy
and chilled

did honeymoon in japan - awesome lost wallet, sucked

may 13 wedding post wedding honemyoon portugal

back to NYC budapest

github stats get more active 300 repos a year, ~5,500 commits/actions top 50 -> top 15

we have a dog (photo series?)

C4Q award

drone? android? JS - danger peril future of those

mothballed cocoapods - see on being 27

**study of narrative structures**

JS twitter followers

http://www.sicpers.info/2017/11/stop-ignoring-the-world/

craig leaving robert leaving feeling of barely being able to swim for the last few months

[animal-haven]: TODO

[dnatest]: TODO - see iMessage [optimisitic-nihilism]: TODO [on_being_25_artsy]: TODO [artsy_meta]: TODO [oss_default]:
