---
layout: on_being_2018
title: "34"
body_tag: "flappy"
categories:
  - "on"
  - "being"
---

{::nomarkdown}

<style>
body {
  background-color: #ebf6ff;
}
</style>

{:/nomarkdown}

2020, hrm. A pretty bad year by all accounts, [1.4 million dead][covid] from a world-wide plague which somehow has
become polticized, political systems being polarized to the point where a centrist position is effectively copping out
and the deliberate undermining of trust in the government by those in power.

_How does anyone strive in an environment like this?_ I lucked out by being white, having an interest in computers which
naturally led to programming and maybe some hints of [ASD][] which allows for a sorta permanent long-term perspective.
Because I've lucked out with the right space, a congruent mindset and starting off early, I've not had to worry about
money for a decade.

This year has been a year for reflection more than any other, in part because I had the time - but also because it was
time for everyone.

### A year of guilt and protestation

We opened the year with my wife receiving a court summons. Her ex-employer was threatening to sue her and her colleagues
who had left their previous job. It was such an american-feeling response to people leaving out of frustration with
management, but it did set the 2020 tone pretty neatly. In the end, my wife + others +lawyers argued that if anything,
the charges should be the other way and the case was dropped before it hit the courts.

At the end of 2019, we moved to Brooklyn. Moving to Brooklyn was a mistake in my opinion. Within 2-3 months it felt like
we were gentrifying the neighbourhood and had started talking about moving out. We were paying a little more than before
($3600/m) and had about 4x the amount of space, but the sense that you are spoiling an area just can't offset that.

We used to live in the lower east side and I loved it. The lower east side had interesting art scene, dive bars and was
basically walking (or bike) distance to everywhere I wanted to go in Manhattan. That said, we basically arrived in the
lower east side, [post-gentrification][les-g] but I think it still had a pretty solid punk attitude about the place.

Brooklyn on the other hand is homely, spacious and well-lived in. It's not for us, I get there are economic arguments
for gentrification (if so many people want to live near Manhattan eventually everything in transit distance will end up
a mini-manhattan) but it's one thing to think about gentrification as a technicality, it's another to walk outside and
see that another local bodegas being replaced with a hipster barber place ran by white folks.

The process is happening regardless of whether we participate, but I'd rather we didn't.

We got nowhere with moving out of Brookyln at the start of the year due to the NYC pandemic lockdowns, and as the
protests really began to take shape in Brooklyn I felt more connected to the area, and less to Manhattan. I went out to
join protests whenever I could and joined and donated to our neightbourhood's [local mutual aid][chma] group.

- Moving to brooklyn
- BLM
- Ireland

### TypeScript

My work at Microsoft continues to be interesting, to be focused on TypeScript ecosystem-level problems and almost
entirely in the open. It's three out of three ticks. I think it's been super refreshing to do a stint at a mega-corp, in
one sense it's really given me a sense of how a company like this works and on the other side - it pays so well that
I've saved up years worth of savings.

The main things I worked on in 2020 were the new TypeScript website & documentation, a new process for contributing to
DefinitelyTyped (one of the worlds most active developer spaces) and a system for generating web versions of TypeScript
at runtime (useful for all sorts of developer-y things).

All of these hit

TypeScript work was cool this year, it's been pretty good at working

- Shipped site
- Got dt-mergebot, make-monaco-builds up and running
- Made a few PRs to tsc

### OSS

- Svelte + TS
- Youtube
- Sponsors

### Life

- Moving to linux
- Three tiered

### Preparing for the

## On Change

We're getting back on track.

<!-- prettier-ignore-start -->

[ASD]: https://www.reddit.com/r/AutismTranslated/
[COVID]: https://ourworldindata.org/covid-deaths
[les-g]: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Lower_East_Side#East_Village_split_and_gentrification
[chma]: https://crownheightsmutualaid.com
<!-- prettier-ignore-end -->
