---
layout: on_being
title: "32"
categories:
  - "on"
  - "being"
---

Hrm, yeah - not an easy one to start. Or probably, to read. Sorry.

Hey, at least I started writing this when I was supposed to this year. It feels like all of the year's larger narrative
arcs are pretty much resolved by October.

So, it's tricky, I think one of the most insightful points in [on being 31][31] is that the definition of "my best year"
is starting to shift.

> This is a year where the good outweighs the bad. I used to always say _"this has been my best year"_ and for 2017?
> it's not really been the case.

This year also doesn't really feel like my best either.

I started the year with two main aims:

- Do more to make Danger happy.
- Do more with C4Q

I asked Danger about her opinions on the first. She says that she is happier now, and that it's not my responsibility to
own that. For her the best changes are getting a job, and finding her own friends in NYC. I think

Cool Danger surprises:

- RuPaul's Drag Race World Tour
- Bushwig
- Blood Mansion
- Kidnapping a dog
- Brother's visit
- William Fitzsimmons

I think there's a few over-arching notes for this year:

- Living with Danger in NYC

  - Miami
  - Feb first job
  - Moving to our new apartment
  - New friends
  - Taking trips up-state

* Murphy's first year

  - Start
  - Schedule
  - End

### Life at Artsy

I didn't end the last on being 31 with too much of a positive note about working at Artsy:

> It feels like the last few months at Artsy have just been a bunch of sucker punches

2018 really just continued that. I feel a general anxiety about working at Artsy nowadays, a lot of it is fueled by the
growth of the company. A lot of my issues come from feeling like something is good for Artsy, but less good for me.

- A lot of my friends left Artsy this year. The re-org mentioned in [on being 31[31] happened and it caused a lot of
  churn. Alan, Maxim, Kana, Will, Sarah, Katarina, Madeline all left to go and do their own thing. Making it the first
  time that people I hired left the company.

- Outside of the tech org, the people who I connected to the most as being folks with a similar also left:
  [Elena][elena], [Legacy][legacy] & [Maja][maja]. These were folk who really represented the Arts world outside of
  daily work, when they got new jobs it was art industry news! They were some of my favourite 1-on-1s and I miss them.

  They really helped to make a lot of the abstract day-to-day work in programming concrete, showcasing what makes the
  art world interesting and providing a lot of useful perspective. It's not that all of my richest connections have
  gone, but I'm down to about half of the people I would regularly keep tabs on.

- I have a new manager for the first time, who I don't really share much in common with. My old manager relationship had
  always been very hands off, occasionally meeting once every month or two but we shared so much in common that it
  wasn't ever really anything to talk about other than how everything is going.

  I feel like it's reasonable for me to have a new manager given our team size changes, but that relationship was never
  something I thought about for the previous 6 years - in changing it, I became more aware of how the match feels off to
  me. This was compounded as we went from being 3 levels of managerial deep (IC -> Manager -> CTO) to 5 ( IC -> Manager
  -> Grand-Manager -> VP -> CTO) which also meant some of the quarterly 1-on-1s I had with C-level execs were cancelled.

  I don't really want to end up in a place where my manager is responsible for deciding what to do my time, or my
  career. I think this is somewhat unreasonable, but not really something I'm willing to give up. It's just something
  this year ended up bringing to the table.

- 2018 went from me enjoying working with everyone, to pushing that I wanted to work in a particular team based on
  least-bad interactions with team-members. I switched teams midway through the year because I wanted to move away from
  daily interactions with someone who didn't really agree with how I was working, to a team where I don't like someone
  but rarely need to interact with them.

  I'd like to hope you're thinking that as these are work relationships I can easily fix them, but honestly, I'm just
  not sure. The differences are about fundamental perspectives on how to do things. I think having different
  perspectives in the company is great, and literally something we strive for in hiring. So, I wouldn't really want it
  any other way.

We introduced a product org to our company, I think by the end of the year this worked out well and there's proof of it
that I'll cover later. However, the introduction went real bad, and included a decision on people's positions that
caused a lot of high level churn in Engineering. Including triggering the start of me deciding that it's time for me to
maybe leave Artsy.

At the start of the year, I'd started taking notes on my mood and the ups and downs. It's a few wins, and a lot of
downers. I took a week off multiple times to debate it, and danger would ask every few days for a few months what the
percentage chance was of me calling it. It eventually hit around 80% and I started booking meetings with all of
leadership at Artsy to try figure out if any of them could change my mind.

I made a list of places that I was interested in working at during this phase, which I think is worth highlighting for
looking back at in a few years. Ordered by alphabetical.

- [GDS][gds] - It feels kinda mind blowing that an agency in the UK government can create such high quality sites. I'd
- GitHub on [Integrations][integrations] - They were trying to address the same problems as Peril
- [Keybase][keybase] - It's still not quite exploded in usage, but I believe in Keybase's core idea
- Microsoft on [Visual Studio Code][vscode] - I know right? Back when I was graduating, I wanted to eventually work at
  Apple. How the world has changed. I think VS Code is one of the best examples of a IDE built to allow others to build
  on it.
- Microsoft on [TypeScript][tsc] - Could I work on a programming language? I'm not sure, but maybe the change is drastic
  enough that I could get a lot out of it, and it's unlikely the team has someone with my kind of skills.
- [Our world in data][indata] - A site built to help put a lot ideas in perspective. I use it to raise my mood.
- [Pursuit][pursuit] - Already proven to be valuable, lots of great work to do there.
- [Signal Foundation][signal] - They are one of the love to contribute to that.
- [The Guardian][guardian] - Still shipping some of the best journalism in the world
- [The Intercept][intercept] - A scrappier newspaper whose focus aligns much more with my own
- [Zeit][zeit] - A small tight team, building JS projects that have a lot of many interesting JS projects

It's important to note that it's not all doom and gloom. I specifically choose to not leave Artsy this year, which isn't
a conscious decision I've needed to make before, but it's still an important statement on the future of Artsy.

I did quite a few things that I'm really proud of this year.

- I wrapped up my series on [React Native at Artsy][rnaa]. This is a series of posts that I've been working on over the
  course of years, covering multiple retrospectives and a few "how does this one specific thing work?" The bow to wrap
  up the series is a tutorial to get the same setup as us that took a week or two of thinking.

- I was debating running a conference with only Artsy folk speaking in NYC, and wanted to see what that looked like. To
  get a sense of how many people would step up to speak or help organize - we ended up making a really cool series of
  workshops that covered the front end patterns we'd been working on for the last 2 years called
  [JavaScriptures][jscriptures].

  This made it really easy to onboard new engineers, as each part of the Artsy front-end stack was covered from first
  principals. It felt pretty stressful to run because of some internal Artsy politics, enough to put off the idea of
  running a larger event in NYC. That said, it was net awesome. They're technical, but you can see [the series
  here][jscriptures].

- I shipped an Augmented Reality mode in the Artsy app. I'm pretty bearish on AR and VR in general, I've found from
  spending a lot og time with both that they are only really useful for small toy-like experiences. Artsy's use case at
  least is realistically useful - seeing an artwork on your walls with correct sizing and lighting. It's a great fit. We
  struggled to find the right way to get a user set up, but eventually came to a pretty good setup.

- We pulled off our first dev conference at Artsy. I've ran one before [in 2014][aswifts] and that went really well,
  I've organized a lot of meetups since then, but not got back up-to a full day serious event. [Maxim Cramer][maxim] and
  I spec'd it out (after another company offered to sponsor it) and when she announced she was going to leave Artsy we
  opted to really take it seriously and to make it a leaving celebration for her.

  We roped in Eloy Durán to wrap up our speakers, and ended up with an all-Artsy speaker set - mixing both talks and
  workshops. Then, we reached out to my favourite Facebook employee, mr [Christoph Nakazawa][cpojer] and we found a way
  for Facebook to handle a lot of the event-space organization and audio/visuals.

  It all went beautifully, and was an awesome experience.

-

* Introduction of Product
* ARKit app
* Artsy x React Native

* Folks Leaving

- Dev

  - Will
  - Maxim
  - Alan
  - Kana
  - Sarah
  - Katarina
  - Madeline

- Peril

  - Danger JS being "done"
  - Peril being an avenue for escape and fixing a large problem

This year most of my non-Artsy programming time went to Peril. I had been building out Peril pretty slowly in 2017, but
I really switched to devote a lot my thinking time to Peril. Peril is the natural evolution of Danger, helping you to
work at an even higher level of abstraction.

Building it out, I had offers for funding Peril full-time, and during some of my lower phases during Artsy, Peril was
what I would do had I chose to leave the company.

Roughly, if Danger was the equivalent to a automatically running a spell-checker when people collaborate on documents.
Then Peril is a way to run the spell checker on every document. It's a lossy metaphor, but it's enough.

Peril is probably the most complicated system I've built (maybe outside of Artsy's iOS app) - it's a complex collection
of many servers coming together to be able to handle the potential throughput of activity. I'm super proud of how many
tests the project has, it's hard to do that when you're the only person working on a project.

That said, I'll quote myself from a year ago:

> [Peril is a great idea](http://www.ustream.tv/recorded/102891636), but an engineer at GitHub is building a similar
> project, [probot][14]. It's great, we use it. Peril occupies another space, but the venn diagram for what they do has
> a strong overlap. I could easily spend the next year or two building and exploring Peril, _but should I?_ Sometimes
> the answer feels like yes, sometimes the answer feels like no.

That got decided for me in 2018 when GitHub announced they were creating a project called [GitHub Actions][actions]. It
replicates the hardest (and most valuable) parts of Peril and makes it available to everyone. It's a fresh
implementation, so I want to stress I'm definitely not trying to play the "they copied me" card. It validated a few of
the tough decisions I had spent months thinking/procrastinating about. Which is awesome. It makes the idea available to
a lot more people, and has a level of integration with GitHub that is unfeasible from a third party.

Sometimes, you just get sherlocked.

I can be both happy and sad about it.

## Wrap-up

My non-Artsy programming time side project wa

I want to bring it back to the idea of this year not being my best year.

I'm not even sure what I'd do differently if I had the chance? In writing this, it feels like I've been more of a
passive observer though-out the year and the biggest things were stuff that happen to me - rather than the other way
around.

Which in the case of Artsy, just seems off, I have a lot of political capital and freedom and use that to help fix
problems in a way that helps out a lot of folks in many smaller ways. I'm in control in a lot of this, but what if I'm
just stubborn and in the way? A small and scrappy mind-set is useful when working in ambiguous environments, but can it
really thrive in a place where thoroughness and comprehension are more important?

### Murphy

[31]: http://orta.io/on/being/31
[actions]: https://github.com/features/actions/?WT.mc_id%3Dch9-yt-chwarren
[elena]: https://news.artnet.com/market/elena-soboleva-david-zwirner-1328585
[legacy]: http://www.artnews.com/2018/08/09/studio-museum-harlem-names-legacy-russell-associate-curator/
[zeit]: https://zeit.co/
[integrations]: https://github.com/marketplace
[keybase]: https://keybase.io/
[signal]: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Signal_Foundation
[gds]: https://gds.blog.gov.uk
[guardian]: https://www.theguardian.com/uk
[intercept]: https://theintercept.com
[indata]: https://ourworldindata.org
[vscode]: https://code.visualstudio.com
[tsc]: https://www.typescriptlang.org
[rnaa]: http://artsy.github.io/series/react-native-at-artsy/
[jscriptures]: http://artsy.github.io/series/javascriptures/
[pursuit]: https://www.pursuit.org
[aswifts]: https://github.com/orta/life/issues/42
[maxim]: https://www.mennenia.com
[cpojer]: http://cpojer.net
