---
layout: on_being_2018
title: "34"
body_tag: "flappy"
categories:
  - "on"
  - "being"
---

{::nomarkdown}

<style>
body {
  background-color: #ebf6ff;
}
</style>

{:/nomarkdown}

2020, hrm. A pretty bad year by all accounts, [1.4 million dead][covid] from a world-wide plague which somehow has
become polticized, political systems being polarized to the point where a centrist position is effectively copping out
and the deliberate undermining of trust in the government by those in power.

_How does anyone strive in an environment like this?_ I lucked out by being white, having an interest in computers which
naturally led to programming and maybe some hints of [ASD][] which allows for a sorta permanent long-term perspective.
Because I've lucked out with the right space, a congruent mindset and starting off early, I've not had to worry about
money for a decade.

This year has been a year for reflection more than any other, in part because I had the time - but also because it was
time for everyone.

### A year of guilt and protestation

We opened the year with my wife receiving a court summons. Her ex-employer was threatening to sue her and her colleagues
who had left their previous job. It was such an american-feeling response to people leaving out of frustration with
management, but it did set the 2020 tone pretty neatly. In the end, my wife + others +lawyers argued that if anything,
the charges should be the other way and the case was dropped before it hit the courts.

At the end of 2019, we moved to Brooklyn. Moving to Brooklyn was a mistake in my opinion. Within 2-3 months it felt like
we were gentrifying the neighbourhood and had started talking about moving out. We were paying a little more than before
($3600/m) and had about 4x the amount of space, but the sense that you are spoiling an area just can't offset that.

We used to live in the lower east side and I loved it. The lower east side had interesting art scene, dive bars and was
basically walking (or bike) distance to everywhere I wanted to go in Manhattan. That said, we basically arrived in the
lower east side, [post-gentrification][les-g] but I think it still had a pretty solid young punk attitude about the
place.

Brooklyn on the other hand is homely, spacious and well-lived in. It's not for us, I get there are economic arguments
for why gentrification happens (if so many people want to live near Manhattan eventually everything in transit distance
will end up a mini-manhattan) but it's one thing to think about gentrification as a concept, it's another to walk
outside and see that another local bodegas being replaced with a hipster barber place ran by white folks.

The process is happening regardless of whether we participate, but I'd rather we didn't help.

We got nowhere with moving out of Brookyln at the start of the year due to the NYC pandemic lockdowns, and as the
protests really began to take shape in Brooklyn I felt more connected to the area, and less to Manhattan. I went out to
join protests whenever I could and joined and donated to our neightbourhood's [local mutual aid][chma] group.

Somewhere about half-way through the year Danger and I talked about leaving America instead of just Brooklyn. She had
reasons to get back to her family, and I was past the concept that the country can live up to how it portrays itself. I
think it's a cruel country which is getting worse. America may have some of the world's richest folks, but I'd rather
judge a country by the lowest someone could fall vs the highest they could achieve.

Don't get me wrong, I grew up in England and I also think it's a cruel country. I sympathize for the folks trying to
improve the countries but the bad guys won. They won a long time ago and have been making it an unfair playing field
ever since. The protests in America gave me the most optimism for the future in the US.

I pitched for Denmark, and Danger pitched for London, Glasgow or Edinburgh. We settled on Dublin. Still in the EU, and
on the same land-mass as the rest of her family. She's back properly for the first time in 14 years.

### A new family member

We have a

### Visitors

Pre-pandemic we used to host people all the time, NYC is a fun place to visit and we can host quite a lot of folks. I
also like having someone else around. Thinking about it, me and Danger have been together for roughly 10 years for that
entire time we've probably only lived on our own, together, for about 3 years.

Obviouslt that didn't happen in 2020, but the 2020 pandemic caused all sorts of complex situations. We ended up having
people live with us more permanently instead. We had both of the other co-founders for Danger's work come stay for

### Code

My work at Microsoft continues to be interesting, to be focused on TypeScript ecosystem-level problems and almost
entirely in the open. It's three out of three ticks. I think it's been super refreshing to do a stint at a mega-corp, in
one sense it's really given me a sense of how a company like this works and on the other side - it pays so well that
I've saved up years worth of savings.

The main things I worked on in 2020 were the new TypeScript website & documentation, a new process for contributing to
DefinitelyTyped (one of the worlds most active developer spaces) and a system for generating web versions of TypeScript
at runtime (useful for all sorts of developer-y things).

I got a few bugs and features into the TypeScript compiler, mainly through pairing with the folks who do that everyday.
At first I thought compiler work might be something I'd get into with time, but compiler stuff is [alloy work][alloy]
and it's probably not a long-term viable option.

Up until the website shipped in August, I devoted most of my spare time programming to working on the TypeScript
website.

### OSS

- Svelte + TS
- Youtube
- Sponsors

### Life

- Moving to linux
- Three tiered

### Preparing for the

## On Change

We're getting back on track.

<!-- prettier-ignore-start -->

[ASD]: https://www.reddit.com/r/AutismTranslated/
[COVID]: https://ourworldindata.org/covid-deaths
[les-g]: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Lower_East_Side#East_Village_split_and_gentrification
[chma]: https://crownheightsmutualaid.com
[alloy]: https://github.com/alloy
<!-- prettier-ignore-end -->
