---
layout: on_being_2018
title: "MINDBLIND"
categories:
  - "on"
  - "thinking"
---

A few years ago Danger asked me of I thought I was on the autistic spectrum, my answer of _"more than some, less that
most"_ she described that as a pretty spectrum-y answer.

I had considered myself on the autism spectrum for about a decade, it's just that no-one had asked, since a sci-fi book
brought up the idea of
[Combat Autism](https://www.karangill.com/glossary-quantum-thief-fractal-prince-jean-le-flambeur/#Combat_autism) which
re-prioritises some thinking patterns in ways which often felt aligned with how I interpret how I think. It's an
approximation, but sometimes that's all you need to have a feel for something.

In 2021, both me and Danger got medical diagnoses which act like new lens on how we interpret ourselves and the world.
For her, [Ehlers-Danlos syndrome](https://www.nhs.uk/conditions/ehlers-danlos-syndromes/) reframes a lifetime of strange
body interactions and unexplained strangeness. For me, [Aphantasia](https://aphantasia.com/what-is-aphantasia/) explains
a common disconnect in mindset for me and the rest of the world.

In many ways, I think this write-up [on facebook](https://www.facebook.com/notes/2862324277332876/) is such a classic
summary of that moment when I was diagnosed. I really don't even need to cover all the details because this write-up us
so accurate. I'll pull out some choice quotes because you need a Facebook account to read.

Visualizing:

> If you tell me to imagine a beach, I ruminate on the “concept” of a beach. I know there’s sand. I know there’s water.
> I know there’s a sun, maybe a lifeguard. I know facts about beaches. I know a beach when I see it, and I can do verbal
> gymnastics with the word itself.

> But I cannot flash to beaches I’ve visited. I have no visual, audio, emotional or otherwise sensory experience. I have
> no capacity to create any kind of mental image of a beach, whether I close my eyes or open them, whether I’m reading
> the word in a book or concentrating on the idea for hours at a time—or whether I’m standing on the beach itself.

> I know facts about the characteristics of your face. If you have radiant blue eyes, I may have stored that
> information. I know the “essence” of your face, but I’m unable to project it visually in my mind because there’s no
> screen.

Not just visualizing:

> I can’t read this in Morgan Freeman’s voice, nor can I “hear” the theme song to Star Wars in any sort of “mind’s ear.”

> I’ve had a couple dreams but there was no visual or sensory component to them. When I woke up, I just knew a list of
> “plot points” about things that happened. This is also how I digest fiction.

How you read:

> And, suddenly, fiction clicks. Paty says I used to worry that “I feel like I’m doing reading wrong.” Descriptive
> language in novels was important to her but impotent to me; I skip it as reflexively as you skip the iTunes Terms of
> Service. Instead, I scour fiction like an archaeologist: Find the bones.
>
> _The slender, olive-skinned man brushed the golden locks out of his hazel eyes. He was so focused on preparing for the
> assassination that he burned his tongue on the scalding cuppa joe (hazelnut, light cream)._
>
> That becomes: _There’s an assassin._
>
> I hurdle over paragraphs and pages, mowing down novels in one night because—while others make love to the
> olive-skinned assassin—I’m just fucking his skeleton. Some books are so fleshy they’re opaque: Lord of the Rings
> numbs. But Lord of the Flies gnaws, because I could meditate on the idea of society-gone-wild forever. Animal Farm is
> awesome. 1984. The splendor of Hogwarts is lost, but the idea of a dementor is brain fuel. And 2 + 2 = 5.

How you remember things:

> I’ve always felt an incomprehensible combination of stupid-smart. I missed a single question on the SATs, yet the
> easiest conceivable question stumps me: What was it like growing up in Miami?
>
> _I don’t know._
>
> What were some of your favorite experiences at Facebook?
>
> _I don’t know._
>
> What did you do today?
>
> _I don’t know. I don’t know what I did today._

> Answering questions like this requires me to “do mental work,” the way you might if you’re struggling to recall what
> happened in the Battle of Trafalgar. If I haven’t prepared, I can’t begin to answer. But chitchat is the lubricant of
> everyday life. I learned early that you can’t excuse yourself from the party to focus on recalling what you did 2
> hours ago.

> It is hard not to feel like a sociopath when you’re lying about how you spent your Monday and you don’t even know why.
> And there is a sadness, an unflagging detachment that comes from forgetting your own existence.

> I’ve always chalked this up to having “bad experiential memory,” a notion I pulled out of thin air because “bad
> memory” doesn’t fit: I can recite the full to-do list of software I’m building.

I totally get this - I really don't make those kind of memories, my annual writeup are a way to at least try and think
over the longer period and try to make a useful narrative for me to understand what happened over the year.
