---
layout: on_being_2018
title: "35"
body_tag: "dystopia"
categories:
  - "on"
  - "being"
---

At the end of my 2021 writeup I debated whether these write-ups were sorta just wallowing in negativity, in many ways
the same problems which exist then also exist now, and most continue to get worse. It's definitely an internal debate
for me whether I'm actually creating something of value when I write something which takes 30-60m to read, consumes a
pretty large chunk of it takes emotional energy for someone to read.

An interesting counter-balance in favour of continuing such in-depth write ups appeared by accident late November as I
was idly watching YouTube and discovered an [Aphantasia documentary by WIRED][aphant-wired]. I originally stuck around
for the production values, but quickly realized that me and the protagonist have a _lot_ in common. Aphantasia
effectively means not having an inner minds-eye, e.g. no visual imagination, and it's strongly correlated with
[SDAM][sdam]. SDAM is having a weak auto-biographical memory, but largely being unaffected by that and that definitely
fits with my mental model of _my_ mental model.

Being able to have a comprehensive overview of what I was up to (and generally thinking) has always been a goal of these
write-ups, with the useful side effect of doing it in the public making it easy for others to see where I'm at. If it
accurately reflects my ups and downs, that's worth the energy cost.

The last few years has continued to be incredibly hostile world to concentrate in, and the process of trying to be
empathetic and understanding to the plight of others can often consume so much emotional energy that its hard to do any
creative work at all. In 2021 I could regularly just not have the energy to do any constructive work. I understand that
I am coming from a place where I merely am aware but aren't often directly affected but there's just so much pain out
there and to put your head in the sand and ignoring it doesn't help.

Somewhere mid-way through the year, during a down period, I came to a new foundational philosophy which started to from
my existing core of [Optimistic Nihilism](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=MBRqu0YOH14) which is _"Today is the best day
to start"_. It's a somewhat less-optimistic nihilism, not quite 'nihilism' on it's own, maybe if I had to give it a name
it's a pragmatic nihilism.

There is no intrinsic meaning to life, but that gap you can fill with your own meaning. Things are not looking great
(ecologically/culturally), and so now is probably the best time to do anything because those opportunities might not
happen in the future.

So, what are the overarching themes for this year?

- [Aphantasia & me](/on/thinking/blindly)
- [Tech's descent into MLMs and rent-seeking monopolies](/)
- [Understanding how unjust the world is]()

Then a more traditional overview of what was interesting, and how day to day life is going.

Events:

- Moving to Ireland
- Lockdown 2.0
- Leaving Microsoft
- Danger's hitting grey before me
- Fostered dogs

Books:

- Capital and Ideology
- Fully Automated Luxury Communism
- Range
- The Quantum Thief trilogy
- No Ward Yet

TV:

- On Becoming a God in Central Florida
- Squid Games
-

Games:

- It takes two
- Horzizon Zero Dawn
- HITMAN
- forza

[aphant-wired]: https://www.wired.co.uk/video/watch/aphantasia-the-people-without-a-minds-eye-out-of-mind-wired-uk
[sdam]: https://www.bbc.com/future/article/20181112-severely-deficient-autobiographical-memory-is-surprisi
