---
layout: on_being
title: "38"
categories:
  - "on"
  - "being"
---

<style type="text/css" media="screen">
a {
  background-color:#d7d7d7;
  color:#6b6b6b;
}
</style>

I've always been a fan of the Seinfeld calendar approach to doing difficult things. For him, every day you write a joke, kinda doesn't matter how good it is but you get to mark it off and you keep on keeping on. Writing up every year was like that, _until I needed to pause it_, now coming back out of this privacy hole it's going to be a bit of a stretch to find what this document is and how to write it.

I used to make 5 year plans, some of my first ever plans were _'work at Apple'_, _'do a TED talk'_ and be able to _'cover "I will follow you into the dark"'_, solo somehow. Something I learned from these attempting plans was that I was never the same person in the middle of that work, and the goals and myself had shifted so much that none of those targets felt right.

How far away am I from the man who last wrote 'on being 34' at the end of 2020, socially locked in his apartment in Brooklyn in the midst of COVID?

I opened that write-up with the statement:

> _How does anyone strive in an environment like this?_

Yet, I did.

### The Missing Years

I stopped because Zach Gage and I decided to take "Puzzle Box" seriously, and that required a new level of focus and secrecy around my work. Well, that and that they were getting progressively darker. I think a lot of us were going though some serious shit in 2020 and 2021. Here in the ends of 2024, we're just _used_ to the 2020's and what that means. Then... it was more raw.

To put one word in front of another, lets explore a the highest level changes since 2020:

- I co-founded, built and sold a tech company
- We lived an entire live in Dublin, and now live in London
- I discovered I had Aphantasia
- My ability to contribute and maintain the level of OSS dropped considerably
- Twitter died a death
- I introduced a new foundational philosophy, and changed my favourite movie
- I have taken gardening and understanding plant care very seriously
- I enjoy player-vs-player video games
- Danger & I made it through the 7 year itch

and then, lets try talk through the year 2024.

### Puzzle Box -> Puzmo -> Puzzmo

At the end of 'on being 34' I was still working at Microsoft on TypeScript, I would have been starting to see the end in sight though. I proposed a bunch of work to the TypeScript team during interviewing, and I was coming to the end of it. That left me with an option to either go deep on being a compiler engineer, or explore other teams / projects. I loved working on the team, and I have only the highest praise for everyone making TypeScript happen. It may turn out to be one of the most impactful roles I ever have. But, I was coming to the end of being super useful though, and was just moving towards being pretty useful. I'm a breadth engineer, and for a compiler project being deep is better.

Zach had proposed to me a scope for "puzzle box" which was maybe something I could work on while still working on TypeScript, and for a while this felt possible. Something changed in that plan outside of our control, and it felt like the only way to do this was to do it all ourselves. With that, we started to explore fund-raising for Puzmo.

We hit a few dead-ends, and then absolutely lucked out by finding Astra - a non-profit dedicated to helping get more puzzle games into the world. We pitched a bigger investment than they'd ever done before and worked through making it happen. For a while, Astra acted somewhat close to a publisher for Puzmo. We reported to them pretty regularly, and for the first year of development Puzmo had a reasonable scope and I found some balance in working through the tail-end of the pandemic lockdowns and chilling out.

I really do mean mean chilling out though, the first year of working on Puzmo in Dublin is possibly the calmest period I've had in a decade or so. I couldn't do open source, I didn't have meetups/conferences, I didn't have things to write on Twitter and so it gave a lot of time for long walks in the park, tending to houseplants, learned to Skateboard. rock-climb, read much more books than normal and tried expanding my video game horizons.

This all changed when Wordle got big.

Wordle obviously changed the _"puzzle games on the web"_ space, converting it from a relatively niche space to something everyone has heard of and a lot of folks were very interested in building a games platform.

To me this was sort of the switch from Puzmo to Puzzmo. We had this choice: do we ship right now while Wordle culture is growing, or do we burn hard and aim to build something a generation or two further along. We opted for the latter, and in the process, I gave up on side-projects and reduced time for anything which was not writing code and working on Puzzmo. I've only allowed one side-project since then.

Zach does a great job explaining some of our motivations for selling Puzzmo in this Puzzmo newsletter, but in rough: to make Puzzmo long-term successful we needed to be sure that there was a working business attached to Puzzmo the product. We couldn't just "develop/design it" and assume that we'd be able to figure out a business-side as we go along, or it was bound to be tied to our attention spans.

We didn't predict that we'd be selling Puzzmo before it became live, I remember being out in Australia for a friends wedding for three weeks as multiple offers started coming in, and I just kept ended up stuck in these brain loops - it's not exactly like winning a lottery, but the scope of potential change is wild. The breadth of "how does this affect X" was tricky to articulate and understand ahead of time. My poor wife just had to deal with these small shell-shocks.

The money isn't fuck you money, but its enough that I could start a system of direct donations in a way that echos one of the most pivotal moments in my life. If you meet me IRL, I'll tell you about it.

### Dublin -> London

Dublin is a cool city. I was still not happy with the feeling of displacement when living in Brooklyn, and Danger kinda like she wanted to live a bit closer to her family. Microsoft, like all Big Tech companies, had a HQ in Ireland and so the transition to Ireland could be helped via the company, which was a net win.

We settled in Kilmainham, it was across the road from a big park and we found ourselves part of pretty tight-knit community. We got to know our neighbours and fellow locals in a way that's hard to do in a big city. 

I liked to tell people I lived 0 miles from the Guinness factory, so it's as good as you can get!

[photos]

I had hoped there would be a tech scene in Dublin, but it was too early post-lockdowns for that all to really happen. Ironically the only time I got COVID was when I ran my own meetup, which put the brakes on giving that another shot.

So, instead we took to being dog-walker people and for the Puzmo period: I learned how to Skateboard by using it for short-term transport, and took it to the park often. I bought an annual pass for a local bouldering gym and learned to rock climb to a pretty good level.

We visited the north a lot, where Danger is from, and the north visited us a lot.

We opened our house to some Ukrainians for a few months, they ended up working for the Irish government helping more Ukrainians integrate into Ireland.

Danger got a little overboard with dog fostering, but it makes for some fun stories and our dog Hayes loved moving from The Big City to a smaller quieter locale.

I ended up on two documentaries while in Dublin, one for Svelte and another for TypeScript.

After the acquisition, I was starting to wonder what it might look like to come out of my Puzzmo fugue and thought that I'd really like to get back some of the things I loved about New York. I pitched that maybe London could be a place for Danger to hang out with her workmates IRL and that I'd be able to find a programming community with people that can challenge/push me.

### Aphant life

I think my drive is abnormally high, and while that never really bothered me - I've never really had a satisfying explanation. I don't consider myself particularly ambitious, but my devotion to craft and time commitment to programming is an outlier. For many years in a two period, I was in the top 20 most active contributors on GitHub, that's not normal.

Well, I wasn't looking for one, but one day I absently put on a WIRED documentary in the background about someone who couldn't visualize images in their head and I ended up finding one.

In rough, most people have the ability to visualize an apple in their hand if they want to, or can remember accurate sounds, smells, tastes etc. This doesn't happen to me. This has a few side effects:

- My memories don't come with attached images/sounds/smells/emotions, it's just kinda facts and tahs
- I don't really have much of an auto-biographical memory, which could be why I started doing these write-ups in the first place
- There's links to autism, but I think if there's a connection for me it's pretty weak

This last one was interesting, as I've used a term from a book for a long time "Combat autism" as a way to try describe how it feels to be exist in my body, and it feels like for Danger there's a lot of behavioral things which come naturally for her which I have to learn and study to internalize.

<!-- link to combat autism -->

Aphantasia kinda neatly takes a bunch of "this is a bit odd" and wraps it into a single neat "your brain doesn't connect things the way most folk do" which felt cool to discover.

### Losing my religion

I just don't have time for the breadth of community contributions I used to. Am I bummed about it? A little bit. I met so many interesting people, and found a way to connect to so many people who had similar values but different interests.

"Wanting to do more OSS" is a lot like "I'll do the gym next year ", it's trivial to say, and for most engineers it probably is something they would like to actually do. Committing the time and actually doing it though it much harder. 